---
tags:
  - FixedPoint
  - Support
  - "#Inversion"
  - "#Algebra"
---
Now, we revisit the idea of [[002 Morphism between Groups#Important Example (Symmetric Group)|Symmetric Group]] discussed before.

---

## Fixed Point$

#FixedPoint 
>[! def|*] Fixed Point
>If $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$, one denote by $\text{Fix}(\sigma)$ its set of fixed points: $\text{Fix}(\sigma)=\{x\in\{1, \cdots, n\}: \sigma(x)=x\}$.

Followin this definition, we have one observation:


>[! rmk| 1]
>For $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$, one has $\text{Fix}(\sigma)\subseteq \text{Fix}(\sigma^{k})$ for any $k$, in particular, $\sigma^{k}(\text{Fix}(\sigma))=\text{Fix}(\sigma)$    
- Proof is simple and routine.

---

## Support

#Support 
>[! def| *] Support
>The support $\text{Supp}(\sigma)$ of a permutation $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ is $\{1, \cdots, n\}-\text{Fix}(\sigma)$ 

Here we also derive one simple fact


>[! rmk| 2]
> For $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$, one has $\text{Supp}(\sigma^{k})\subseteq\text{Supp}(\sigma)$ for any $k$. In particular, $\sigma^{k}(\text{Supp}(\sigma))=\text{Supp}(\sigma)$.
- Proof can be derived easilty from previous fact.


>[! lem |*]
>If $c_{1},c_{2}$ are two cycles in $\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ with disjoint support, then $c_{1}\circ c_{2}=c_{2}\circ c_{1}$ 
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^7f8f9c|Proof]]

---

## Central Results

The following theorem claims that every permutation can be decomposed into composition of cycles with disjoint support.

>[! thm |*] Decomposition of Permutation
>In $\mathfrak{S}_{n}$, every permutation $\sigma$ can be written as $\sigma=c_{1}\circ\cdots\circ c_{d}$ for some $d$. Each $c_{i}$ has length $\geq 2$, and all cycles have disjoint support. Moreover, up to reordering, the decomposition is unique.
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^114349|Proof]]


We also want to discuss how two permutations are equal **up to conjugation**.

>[! thm |*] 
>Let $\sigma$ and $\sigma'$ be two permutations in $\mathfrak{S}_{n}$, and let $\sigma=c_{1}\circ\cdots\circ c_{d}$, $\sigma'=c_{1}'\circ\cdots\circ c_{d'}'$. Assume that  $2\leq l_{1}\leq\cdots\leq l_{d}$ and $2\leq l_{1}\leq\cdots\leq l_{d'}$, where $l_{i}=l(c_{i})$ and $l_{j}'=l(c_{j}')$. Then $\sigma$ and $\sigma'$ are conjugate if and only if $d=d'$, $l_{i}=l_{i'}$ for all $i$.
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^121b5a|Proof]]

>[! rmk |* ]
>If $\sigma$ is a $r$ -cycle, then its conjugacy class is all $r$ -cycles.


>[! def |*] Transposition
>A transposition is a $2$ -cycle.

The following corollary is easy to verify.

>[! cor |*]
>The group $\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ is generated by transpositions.
>
- Every permutation is a product of cycles, and every cycle is a product of transposition.

---

## Sign Map

To each permutation $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$, we attach a sign $\epsilon(\sigma)\in \{\pm 1\}$.

#Inversion
>[! def |*] Inversion
>For $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$, we say that $(i,j)\in\{1, \cdots, n\}^{2}$ with $i<j$ is an inversion of  $\sigma$ if $\sigma(i)>\sigma(j)$. We denote by $\text{Inv}(\sigma)$ the set of inversions of $\sigma$, and by $l(\sigma)$ its cardinality.

Now we can give the definition of the **sign of a permutation**, which is important
 
>[! def |*] 
>For $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$, we set $\epsilon(\sigma)=(-1)^{l(\sigma)}$ and call it the sign of $\sigma$

For $x\in\mathbb{R}^{\times}$, we set $\text{sgn}(x)=\frac{x}{|x|}$. 

Below are two formulas (though not useful) to calculate the sign of a permutation.
>[! lem | 1] 
> $\epsilon(\sigma)=\prod\limits_{1\leq i< j\leq n}\text{sgn}(\sigma(j)-\sigma(i))$

>[! lem | 2]
> $\epsilon(\sigma)=\prod\limits_{1\leq i<j\leq n}\frac{\sigma(j)-\sigma(i)}{j-i}$
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^cd0a05|Proof]]
$
We now arrive at the fundamental theorem.

>[! thm |*] 
> $\epsilon: \mathfrak{S}_{n}\to \{\pm 1\}$ is a group homomorphism which is surjective as soon as $n\geq 2$.

^49170f

- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^ae1553|Proof]]

In the proof of surjectivity, we notice that $(1\ 2)$ has sign $-1$. In fact, all permutations have sign $-1$.

>[! prp | 1] 
>If $\tau$ is a transposition, then $\epsilon(\tau)=-1$. More generally if $c$ is an $r\geq 2$ -cycle, then $\epsilon(c)=r-1$.
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^14be5a|Proof]]

>[! prp |2]
>If $\sigma=c_{1}\circ\cdots\circ c_{d}$, with $c_{i}$ a cycle of length $l_{i}$, then $\epsilon(\sigma)=(-1)^{\sum\limits_{i=1}^{d}(l_{i}-1)}$ 
- Proof is straight forward by applying the previous theorem.


---

## Alternate Group

From the [[010 Symmetric Group#^49170f|Fundamental Theorem]] we can derive the so-called althernate group.

#AlternateGroup
>[! def |*] Alternate Group
>The alternate group $A_{n}=\text{ker}(\epsilon)$.

Note that $A_{n}\lhd\mathfrak{S}_{n}$.

>[! prp |*] Order of Alternate Group
> $|A_{n}|=\frac{|\mathfrak{S}_{n}|}{2}=\frac{n!}{2}$
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^796b28|Proof]]

>[! prp |*]
>For $n\geq 3$, $A_{n}=\langle 3-cycles\rangle$.
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^9fa67b|Proof]]

Now we introduce an **important lemma**

>[! lem |*]
>If $n\geq 5$, then all $3-cycles$ are conjugate in $A_{n}$, i.e. $\forall \sigma,\sigma'$ are $3-cycles$, there exists $\iota\in A_{n}$ such that $\sigma'=\iota\sigma\iota^{-1}$.

^a3298b
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^d41c8a|Proof]]

>[! cor |1 ] 
> $H\lhd\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ and if $H$ contains all $3-cycles$, then $A_{n}\lhd H$ for $n\geq 3$.

- The proof is simple once we realize that $A_{n}\leq H$

>[! cor | 2]
> $H\lhd A_{n}$, and if $H$ contains some $3-cycles$, then $H=A_{n}$ for $n\geq 5$.

- Crucial part of the proof is to use [[010 Symmetric Group#^a3298b|this important lemma]].
- Remark: this corollary shows that for $n\geq 5$, the alternate group $A_{n}$ is **simple**.

>[! def |*] Simple Group
>A non-trivial group is called simple if its [[003 Normal Subgroup#^eaa5c3|normal]] subgroups are either trivial or itself.


Now, we state an important lemma that shows how alternate group can be generated.

>[! thm |*]
>If $n\geq 2$, then $[\mathfrak{S}_{n}, \mathfrak{S}_{n}]=A_{n}$.
>If $n\geq 5$, then $[A_{n}, A_{n}]=A_{n}$.
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^31f993|Proof]]

At last, we introduce a important theorem regarding simple group.

>[! thm |*] 
>For $n\neq 4$, $A_{n}$ is simple.
- [[Symmetric Group (Proof)#^2062e4|Proof]]





 




